I found this API: healthcorum/priceapi I don't have credentials to use it. I am trying to access healthcare prices to build a canvas embedded widget to show any patient all closeby healthcare service cost estimates based on their health insurance plan. Can such data be collected across the internet to build this solution for the hackathon? Are there any free APIs that can be directly used for this solution instead of collecting data? What is the best approach here?
Yes, you can build this solution using publicly available healthcare pricing APIs, especially those from CMS and Healthcare.gov.. Serif Health also offers robust APIs, though they may require access credentials.

To create a canvas-embedded widget that estimates nearby healthcare service costs based on insurance plans, here’s a breakdown of the best approach:

🧩 Free and Public APIs You Can Use
CMS Marketplace API Offers data on:

ACA plan benefits and ratings

Doctor, facility, and drug coverage

Out-of-pocket cost estimates

Medicaid and CHIP eligibility Ideal for integrating insurance plan details and coverage estimates.

Healthcare.gov API Provides:

Coverage options

Health insurance plans

Enrollment data Great for embedding updated marketplace content and insurance plan comparisons.

Serif Health APIs Offers:

In-network provider status

Market median reimbursement

Negotiated rates by provider and procedure Powerful for price transparency, but may require credentials or partnership.

🛠️ Best Approach to Build Your Widget
Start with CMS and Healthcare.gov APIs These are free, reliable, and updated regularly. Use them to:

Pull insurance plan data

Estimate out-of-pocket costs

Identify covered providers and services

Incorporate Geolocation and Filtering Use the patient’s ZIP code or GPS to:

Filter providers by proximity

Match services to local facilities

Add Insurance Plan Matching Logic Based on the patient’s plan, filter:

In-network providers

Covered procedures

Estimated costs

Optional: Partner with Serif Health or HealthCorum If you want deeper pricing insights (e.g., negotiated rates), reach out for access. These APIs are more granular but may not be free.

Design for Simplicity and Accessibility Ensure the widget:

Is mobile-friendly

Offers clear cost breakdowns

Includes disclaimers (estimates only)

🔍 Suggested Follow-ups
Would you like help with:

Designing the widget interface

Integrating the CMS API

Finding sample data for testing

Writing a pitch for your hackathon project

Let me know how you'd like to proceed—I can help you build this step-by-step.

Will the above proposed solution using CMS and Healthcare.gov APIs cover all kinds of potential cost estimates a user may be able to find? Are there any other open source methods or ways for building this (whether APIs or any other options)?
CMS and Healthcare.gov APIs offer robust data for ACA plans and general cost estimates, but they do not cover all healthcare pricing scenarios—especially for private insurance, negotiated rates, or non-ACA plans. To build a comprehensive solution, you’ll need to combine these with other open-source tools and datasets.

🧠 What CMS and Healthcare.gov APIs Cover
The Marketplace API from CMS and Healthcare.gov provides:

ACA plan benefits and ratings

Doctor, facility, and drug coverage

Out-of-pocket cost utilization estimates

Medicaid and CHIP eligibility estimates

These APIs are ideal for estimating costs under ACA plans and public insurance programs. However, they do not include:

Negotiated rates between private insurers and providers

Real-time pricing for procedures at specific hospitals

Coverage details for employer-sponsored or off-exchange plans

🧰 Other Open Source and Free Resources
To fill in the gaps, consider these open-source tools and datasets:

CMS Hospital Price Transparency GitHub Tools Offers open-source tools to help hospitals publish machine-readable pricing data.

CMS Price Transparency Guide on GitHub Technical implementation guide for the Transparency in Coverage rule. Includes schemas and examples for parsing machine-readable files from hospitals and insurers.

HealthPrices.org by HCCI Free tool showing average prices for common healthcare services by metro area. Useful for benchmarking and consumer-facing estimates.

Serif Health APIs Offers negotiated rate data, market median reimbursement, and in-network provider status. May require access credentials but is highly relevant for private insurance pricing.

🧭 Best Strategy for Your Widget
To build a comprehensive cost-estimate widget:

Start with CMS and Healthcare.gov APIs Use them for ACA plan coverage, eligibility, and general cost estimates.

Incorporate Hospital Price Transparency Files Parse machine-readable files from hospitals to get procedure-level pricing.

Use HealthPrices.org for Benchmarking Show average costs in the user’s metro area to provide context.

Optionally Integrate Serif Health or Similar APIs For deeper insights into negotiated rates and private insurance costs.

Design for Modularity Allow your widget to plug in new data sources as needed (e.g., insurer APIs, hospital feeds).

Would you like help with parsing hospital transparency files, designing the widget interface, or writing a hackathon pitch? I can walk you through any part of this.

I like all points 1 to 5 except point 4. How to best plan an architecture that solves for this problem? Is Agentic AI needed here at all? Is it all going to be realtime or does something need to be in a backend process?
You can build this solution with a hybrid architecture that combines real-time APIs with backend preprocessing of hospital price transparency files. Agentic AI is not strictly necessary, but could enhance user experience through intelligent routing and personalization.

🏗️ Recommended Architecture Overview
Layer	Components	Role
Frontend (Canvas Widget)	React/Next.js, embedded iframe	Collects user input (location, insurance plan), displays cost estimates
API Gateway	Node.js/Express or FastAPI	Routes requests to internal services and external APIs
Real-Time API Layer	CMS Marketplace API, Healthcare.gov API	Fetches insurance plan details, coverage, and eligibility
Backend Processing Layer	Python, Airflow, AWS Lambda	Parses hospital price transparency files, enriches data, caches results
Database	PostgreSQL or MongoDB	Stores parsed pricing data, provider metadata, insurance mappings
Search & Matching Engine	ElasticSearch or vector DB	Matches user query to closest procedures, providers, and plans
Optional Agentic Layer	LangChain, Semantic Kernel	Enhances personalization, handles ambiguous queries, guides user flow
⚙️ Real-Time vs Backend Processing
Real-Time Tasks:

Insurance plan lookup via CMS APIs

Location-based provider filtering

Displaying cached cost estimates

User interaction and feedback

Backend Tasks:

Parsing machine-readable hospital files (JSON/XML)

Mapping CPT codes to procedures

Normalizing insurer-provider negotiated rates

Periodic updates and enrichment

🧠 Is Agentic AI Needed?
Not required, but useful for:

Personalized guidance: “Based on your plan and ZIP code, here are your best options.”

Query disambiguation: “Did you mean MRI or CT scan?”

Contextual routing: “You’re eligible for Medicaid—switching to public plan estimates.”

Agentic AI can be layered on top of the core system to improve usability and decision support, especially in consumer-facing applications.

🧩 Suggested Follow-ups
Would you like help with:

Designing the backend pipeline for hospital file parsing

Choosing the best database schema for pricing data

Integrating CMS APIs into your widget

Adding intelligent query handling with Agentic AI

Let’s build this out together—just tell me where you want to dive deeper.

yes let's start with 1: * Designing the best backend pipeline for hospital file parsing Keep in mind this is a hackathon project and needs to be done within 24 hours.
Perfect — let’s design a lean, hackathon-ready backend pipeline to parse hospital price transparency files. These files are mandated by CMS and typically include negotiated rates for procedures by CPT/HCPCS codes, often in JSON or CSV format.

🧱 Goal
Build a backend service that:

Downloads machine-readable hospital pricing files

Parses and normalizes them

Extracts relevant data (e.g., procedure code, provider, payer, negotiated rate)

Stores it in a queryable format (e.g., SQLite, PostgreSQL, or even in-memory for speed)

⚙️ Minimal Viable Pipeline (MVP) Architecture
Step	Tool	Description
1. File Discovery	Manual or scripted	Identify 1–3 hospital URLs with machine-readable files (JSON/CSV)
2. File Download	Python requests or wget	Pull files into local or cloud storage
3. Parsing	Python + pandas or json	Parse JSON or CSV into structured format
4. Normalization	Map fields	Extract: hospital_name, procedure_code, description, payer, negotiated_rate
5. Storage	SQLite or PostgreSQL	Store structured data for fast querying
6. API Layer	FastAPI or Flask	Expose endpoints for querying by ZIP, CPT, payer, etc.
🧪 Sample Data Schema
sql
CREATE TABLE prices (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  hospital_name TEXT,
  procedure_code TEXT,
  description TEXT,
  payer TEXT,
  negotiated_rate NUMERIC,
  zip_code TEXT
);
🧰 Tools & Libraries
Python: Fast prototyping

pandas: CSV/JSON parsing

FastAPI: Lightweight API layer

SQLite: Simple, file-based DB for hackathons

Postman: Test endpoints

🕒 24-Hour Hackathon Timeline
Time	Task
0–2 hrs	Identify 2–3 hospital files (JSON/CSV)
2–6 hrs	Write parser to extract CPT, payer, rate
6–8 hrs	Normalize and load into SQLite
8–12 hrs	Build FastAPI endpoints
12–16 hrs	Build frontend widget to call API
16–20 hrs	Add filters: ZIP, payer, CPT
20–24 hrs	Polish UI, test, prep demo
🧩 Suggested Follow-ups
Would you like:

Sample hospital file URLs to test with

A Python script to parse one of these files

Help designing the FastAPI endpoints

Let’s get this pipeline rolling — what’s your next move?

does there need to be an agent that handles parsing in case document formats change, or in case we want to easily scale to new hospitals or providers?
Yes — introducing a lightweight agent or modular parsing framework is a smart move if you want to scale this beyond a hackathon. While you can hardcode parsing logic for 1–2 hospitals during the event, real-world hospital transparency files vary wildly in:

Format: JSON, CSV, XML, or nested ZIPs

Schema: Different field names, nesting, or encoding

Granularity: Some list CPT codes, others use DRGs or internal codes

Payers: Some list payer names, others use plan IDs or abbreviations

🧠 Why an Agent or Modular Parser Helps
Adaptability: Automatically detects file type and schema

Scalability: Easily plug in new hospital formats without rewriting core logic

Resilience: Handles missing fields, encoding issues, or malformed data

Maintainability: Clean separation of concerns (e.g., download, parse, normalize)

🛠️ Hackathon-Friendly Agent Design
You don’t need a full LLM-based agent. A rule-based or plugin-style parser manager works well:

python
class ParserAgent:
    def __init__(self):
        self.parsers = {
            "json": JSONParser(),
            "csv": CSVParser(),
            "zip": ZipParser(),
        }

    def detect_format(self, file_path):
        if file_path.endswith(".json"):
            return "json"
        elif file_path.endswith(".csv"):
            return "csv"
        elif file_path.endswith(".zip"):
            return "zip"
        else:
            raise ValueError("Unsupported format")

    def parse(self, file_path):
        fmt = self.detect_format(file_path)
        return self.parsers[fmt].parse(file_path)
Each parser class (e.g., JSONParser) handles its own quirks and normalization logic.

🧩 Optional: LLM Agent for Schema Mapping
If you want to get fancy post-hackathon, you could use an LLM to:

Map unknown field names to standard schema (e.g., “negotiated_charge_amount” → negotiated_rate)

Extract CPT codes from free-text descriptions

Flag anomalies or missing data

But for the hackathon, a modular parser manager is your best bet.

Would you like a starter template for this parser agent or help writing one for a real hospital file?

hackathon criteria is that we need to use an LLM agent for tackling our problem. Within this entire plan (not just parsing files), where does the LLM agent best fit? If it best fits for adaptive dynamic parsing for any possible providers, would it be possible to have that as part of the backend workflow?
Absolutely — if your hackathon requires an LLM agent, the best fit is in adaptive parsing and intelligent user interaction, both of which can be embedded in the backend workflow. Here's how to make the most of it:

🧠 Where the LLM Agent Adds the Most Value
1. Dynamic Parsing of Hospital Files
Problem: Hospital price transparency files vary wildly in format, schema, and terminology.

LLM Role: Use the agent to:

Interpret unknown field names (e.g., “gross_charge” vs “negotiated_rate”)

Extract CPT/HCPCS codes from free-text descriptions

Normalize payer names and procedure labels

Backend Integration: Run the LLM agent as a preprocessing step in your ETL pipeline. It can:

Accept raw JSON/CSV

Output structured records with standardized fields

Flag anomalies or missing data

2. User Query Interpretation
Problem: Users may ask vague or non-standard questions like “How much does a knee scan cost near me?”

LLM Role: Convert natural language into structured queries:

Map “knee scan” → CPT code 73721

Identify location from context

Match insurance plan to payer name

Backend Integration: Use the agent in your API layer to transform user input before querying the database.

3. Personalized Recommendations
Problem: Users may not know what procedures they need or which providers are best.

LLM Role: Offer guidance like:

“Based on your symptoms and plan, here are three affordable options nearby.”

“This provider has lower negotiated rates for your plan.”

Backend Integration: Use the agent to rank or filter results before sending them to the frontend.

🧱 How to Embed the LLM Agent in Backend Workflow
plaintext
[User Input] → [API Layer] → [LLM Agent]
                            ↳ Parse hospital file
                            ↳ Normalize schema
                            ↳ Interpret query
                            ↳ Map procedure codes
                            ↳ Return structured data
→ [Database/API Query] → [Results to Frontend]
You can run the agent as a microservice or function within your backend. For hackathon speed, use a hosted LLM API (e.g., OpenAI, Azure OpenAI) and keep prompts simple and focused.

🧩 Suggested Follow-ups
Would you like:

A sample prompt for parsing hospital files with an LLM

Help designing the agent’s input/output schema

A walkthrough of how to deploy the agent in FastAPI

Let’s make your agent the star of this hackathon. Ready to dive into the prompt design?

I thought parsing the hospital file would happen in a backend workflow not in realtime, did I misunderstand? If I misunderstood, then that's fine
You're absolutely right — parsing hospital price transparency files should happen in a backend workflow, not in real time. You didn’t misunderstand at all.

Here’s the breakdown:

🧱 Why Parsing Belongs in the Backend
File size: Hospital files can be hundreds of MBs, especially in JSON or CSV formats.

Latency: Parsing and normalizing these files takes time — not suitable for real-time user interaction.

Frequency: These files don’t change daily. You can parse them once and update periodically (e.g., weekly).

Scalability: Backend workflows allow you to batch-process multiple hospitals and cache results.

🧠 Where the LLM Agent Fits in the Backend
The LLM agent can be part of the ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) pipeline:

plaintext
[Download File] → [LLM Agent parses & normalizes] → [Store in DB] → [Expose via API]
Extract: Pull raw hospital files

Transform: Use LLM to interpret schema, map fields, extract CPT codes, normalize payer names

Load: Save structured data into SQLite/PostgreSQL

This keeps your real-time API fast and responsive, while the heavy lifting happens offline.

Would you like help writing a prompt or script for the LLM agent to handle parsing and normalization? We can build that next.

yes now let's Design the best backend pipeline for any hospital file parsing that uses LLM to handle parsing and normalization. Would this pipeline also handle fetching all possible hospital/service provider websites on the internet where it can download this data?
Yes — the backend pipeline can be designed to both fetch hospital price transparency files and use an LLM agent to parse and normalize them. For scalability, you'll want a modular architecture that separates file discovery, downloading, parsing, and storage.

🧱 Backend Pipeline Architecture with LLM Parsing
Stage	Component	Description
1. Discovery	Crawler or curated list	Finds hospital/provider websites with price transparency files
2. Download	Scheduler + Downloader	Pulls machine-readable files (JSON, CSV, ZIP) from URLs
3. Format Detection	MIME/type checker	Identifies file format and encoding
4. LLM Parsing Agent	Hosted LLM (e.g., OpenAI)	Interprets schema, extracts CPT codes, payer names, rates
5. Normalization	Schema mapper	Maps raw fields to standard schema (e.g., procedure_code, negotiated_rate)
6. Validation	Rule engine	Flags missing data, anomalies, or outliers
7. Storage	SQLite/PostgreSQL	Stores structured records for querying
8. API Layer	FastAPI or Flask	Exposes endpoints for frontend widget or analytics tools
🧠 LLM Agent Capabilities
The LLM agent can be prompted to:

Interpret unknown field names (e.g., “gross_charge” → negotiated_rate)

Extract CPT/HCPCS codes from free-text descriptions

Normalize payer names (e.g., “BCBS” → “Blue Cross Blue Shield”)

Handle nested or malformed JSON/CSV structures

Flag missing or ambiguous entries

Example prompt:

“Given this JSON hospital pricing file, extract a list of procedures with CPT codes, payer names, and negotiated rates. Normalize field names and return structured output.”

🌐 File Discovery Strategy
To fetch hospital/provider files across the internet:

Use CMS’s curated hospital list: Many hospitals publish their transparency files at predictable URLs (e.g., /price-transparency.json)

Scrape known hospital domains: Use a crawler to look for links containing “price”, “transparency”, “chargemaster”, etc.

Use GitHub tools:

CMS Hospital Price Transparency Guide

Serif Health’s automation blog

🧪 Hackathon-Friendly Implementation Tips
Focus on 3–5 hospitals with known file formats

Use a simple crawler or static list for discovery

Use hosted LLM API for parsing (e.g., OpenAI GPT-4)

Store results in SQLite for speed

Expose a /cost-estimates endpoint for your widget

Would you like help writing the LLM prompt, building the parser module, or setting up the crawler for hospital file discovery?